# Component registry

This registry contains testing information for every component (node or graph) in OpenZL.
Each component has a unique ID that can be used to retrieve the `OpenZLComponent` object.
This object tells the OpenZL testing framework:
- How to create the nodes & graphs for this component
- How to configure these nodes & graphs
- Which format versions the component supports
- How to generate interesting inputs to test this component on

## Adding a new component

Any time you add a new component to OpenZL you MUST add an entry to the registry.
See `OpenZLComponents.h` for instructions and `OpenZLComponent.h` for detailed
information about each function to override.

### Best practices

- Create a new component for logically separated functionality, even if they share the same underly codec. Especially if the set of allowed inputs is not shared between them.
- Each explicitly listed component must be present in `predefinedNodes()` or `predefinedGraphs()`.
- Use `generateNodes()` and `generateGraphs()` to pseudo-randomly generate configuration options for configurable components. If there are only a small number of configs, they could be explicitly enumerated in the predefined nodes & graphs.
- Use `predefinedInputs()` for small sanity checks and edge case testing. This will help find obvious bugs quickly in unit tests. Make sure these inputs are edge cases for your particular component.
- Use `generateInputs()` to generate valid inputs for your node. It is okay to guide the generation process towards interesting inputs for your node, but you should strive to allow the pseudo-random process to generate all possible valid inputs for your node, rather than constraining the process to a small set. This allows fuzzers to explore the entire input space, rather than constrain it to a small subset.

## Tests generated by the component registry

Adding your component to the registry automatically sets up tests and fuzzers for the component.
These tests are:

- Integration tests that test every node/graph against every input with every format version.
    - Located in `tests/integrationtest/OpenZLComponentTest.cpp`
- Round trip fuzzers that ensure your component succeeds on valid inputs
    - Located in `tests/fuzz/OpenZLComponentFuzzer.cpp`
- Compression fuzzers that ensure your component never crashes
    - Located in `tests/fuzz/OpenZLComponentFuzzer.cpp`
- Decompression fuzzers that ensure your component never crashes
    - Located in `tests/fuzz/OpenZLComponentFuzzer.cpp`
- TODO: Version compatibility tests that ensure your component never makes a
  breaking change to the format
- TODO: Graph serialization fuzzing that ensures your component is safe to serialize and deserialize
